.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd April 12, 2004
.Dt CPMAC 1
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm /usr/bin/CpMac
.Nd copy files preserving metadata and forks (DEPRECATED)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl rp
.Op Fl mac
.Ar source target
.Nm
.Op Fl rp
.Op Fl mac
.Ar source ... directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
Tools supporting Carbon development, including
.Nm ,
were deprecated with Xcode 6.
.Pp
In its first form, the
.Nm
utility copies the contents of the file named by the
.Ar source
operand to the destination path named by the
.Ar target
operand.
This form is assumed when the last operand does not name an already
existing directory.
.Pp
In its second form,
.Nm
copies each file named by a
.Ar source
operand to a destination directory named by the
.Ar directory
operand.
The destination path for each operand is the pathname produced by the
concatenation of the last operand, a slash, and the final pathname
component of the named file.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl r
If
.Ar source
designates a directory,
.Nm
copies the directory and the entire subtree connected at that point.
This option also causes symbolic links to be copied, rather than
indirected through, and for
.Nm
to create special files rather than copying them as normal files.
Created directories have the same mode as the corresponding source
directory, unmodified by the process' umask.
.It Fl p
Causes
.Nm
to preserve in the copy as many of the modification time, access time,   
file flags, file mode, user ID, and group ID as allowed by permissions.       
.It Fl mac
Allows use of HFS-style paths for both source and target.  Path elements must be separated by colons, and the path must begin with a volume name or a colon (to designate current directory).
.El
.Sh NOTES
The
.Nm
command does not support the same options as the POSIX 
.Nm cp 
command, and is much less flexible in its operands.  It cannot be used as a direct substitute for 
.Nm cp
in scripts.
.Pp
As of Mac OS X 10.4, the 
.Nm cp
command preserves metadata and resource forks of files on Extended HFS volumes, so it can be used in place of 
.Nm CpMac .
The 
.Nm
command will be deprecated in future versions of Mac OS X.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cp 1
.Xr MvMac 1
