.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 2/1/06               \" DATE 
.Dt dwarfdump 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm dwarfdump
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\".Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd dump DWARF debug information.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op options
.Ar file1             \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Ar file2             \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Ar ...             \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
For each operand that names a mach-o or 32 bit ELF file,
.Nm
disassembles the DWARF data found within the file. Only the .debug_info section 
is disassembled unless one of the --debug-XXXX or --all options are specified. 
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl a, -all           \"-a flag
Disassemble all supported DWARF sections.
.It Fl -arch=ARCH
Dump DWARF debug information for the specified CPU architecture. 
Architectures may be specified by name or by number. 
This option can be specified multiple times, once for each desired architecture. 
All cpu architectures will be disassembled by default. 
.Pp
.It Fl c, -show-children
Show a DIE's children when using the --debug-info=OFFSET, --find,
and --name options.
.It Fl e, -english
Print dwarf tags and attributes in a more readable format instead of
using the DWARF TAG_ and AT_ definitions.
.It Fl -eh-frame[=SECTION]
Dump exception handling frame information from the optional SECTION parameter. 
The __eh_frame section will be dumped by default.
.It Fl -file-stats[=size]
Show file composition statistics for any input files. Each file's contents 
are analyzed and broken down into byte counts for the following categories: 
symbol table, string table, text and code, DWARF debug information, STABS debug 
information, and other. When multiple files are specified, byte count totals for 
each category will be displayed at the end of the table. 
Specify the optional 'size' argument to show all byte count results
using unit suffixes: Byte, Kilobyte, Megabyte, Gigabyte, Terabyte and Petabyte. This
option can be useful in tracking the size and makeup of mach-o binary 
files, and also allows easy comparison between DWARF and STABS built
binaries and related object files.
.Pp
.It Fl f Ar PATTERN, Fl -find=PATTERN
Search for the exact text PATTERN in the .debug_pubnames section and
print the matching debug information entries. Use the --regex
option to have PATTERN become a regular expression for more flexible
pattern matching.
.Pp
When there is no .debug_pubnames section or the name of the DIE you are
looking for is not found in the .debug_pubnames section, try using the
slower but more complete --name option.
.Pp
.It Fl F, -show-form
Show DWARF form types after the DWARF attribute types.
.Pp
.It Fl h, ?, -help
Show help and usage for this command.
.Pp
.It Fl i, -ignore-case
Ignore case distinctions in when finding by name using strings or
regular expressions.
.Pp
.It Fl n PATTERN, Fl -name=PATTERN
Find and print all DIE entries whose name (DW_AT_name attribute) matches
the exact text in PATTERN. Use the --regex option to have PATTERN
become a regular expression for more flexible pattern matching.
.Pp
.It Fl -lookup=ADDRESS
Lookup ADDRESS in the debug information and print out the file, function,
block and line table details.
.Pp
.It Fl o Ar PATH, Fl -out-file=PATH
Redirect output to a file specified by PATH.
.Pp
.It Fl p, -show-parents
Show a DIE's parent DIE objects when using the --debug-info=OFFSET, --find,
and --name options.
.Pp
.It Fl r Ar N, Fl -recurse-depth=N
Only recurse to a child depth of N when displaying the DWARF
information.
.Pp
.It Fl x, -regex
Treat any PATTERN strings as regular expressions when searching instead
of just as an exact string match.
.Pp
.It Fl u, -uuid
Show the UUID for each architecture.
.Pp
.It Fl -diff
Dump the output in a format that can be used to diff DWARF output from two different files.
.Pp
.It Fl v, -verbose
Display verbose information when dumping. This can help to debug DWARF
issues.
.Pp
.It Fl -verify
Verify the structure of the DWARF information by verifying the compile
unit chains, die relationships graph, and address ranges.
.Pp
.It Fl -version
Display the current version and build date of the
.Nm
binary.
.Pp
.It Fl -debug-abbrev, -debug-aranges, -debug-frame[=OFFSET], -debug-info[=OFFSET], -debug-inlined, -debug-line[=OFFSET], -debug-macinfo[=OFFSET], -debug-pubnames[=PATTERN], -debug-pubtypes[=PATTERN], -debug-str,--apple-exttypes[=PATTERN],  --apple-names[=PATTERN], --apple-types[=PATTERN], --apple-namespaces[=PATTERN], --apple-objc[=PATTERN]

Dump the specified DWARF section by name. Only the .debug_info section is
disassembled by default. Some entries support adding a '=OFFSET'
as a way to provide an optional offset of the exact entry to dump within
the respective section. When an OFFSET is provided, only the entry at that
offset will be dumped, else the entire section will be dumped. Some options 
support an optional '=PATTERN' parameter that will search the section for an
entry with a matching name. Children of items at OFFSETs can be dumped by also
using the --show-children option where applicable.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.\".Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.\".Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.\".It Pa /usr/share/file_name
.\"FILE_1 description
.\".It Pa /Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name
.\"FILE_2 description
.\".El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr dsymutil 1 
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner 