.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Apple Computer, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd June 13, 2003
.Dt HEADERDOC2HTML 1
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME
.Nm headerdoc2html
.Nd header documentation processor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm headerdoc2html
.Op Fl HXdhquvx
.Op Fl o Ar output_dir
.Ar file
.Op file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Headerdoc2html
processes the header
.Ar file
or files and generates HTML documentation based
on specially-formatted comments.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl H
The
.Fl H
option turns on inclusion of the htmlHeader line, as specified in the config file.
.It Fl X
The
.Fl X
option switches from HTML to XML output
.It Fl d
The
.Fl d
option turns on extra debugging output.
.It Fl h
The
.Fl h
option causes headerdoc to output an XML
file containing metadata about the resulting
document.
.It Fl p
The
.Fl p
option turns on the C preprocessor.
.It Fl q
The
.Fl q
option causes headerdoc to be excessively quiet.
.It Fl u
The
.Fl u
option causes headerdoc to produce unsorted output.
.It Fl v
The
.Fl v
option causes headerdoc to print version information.
.El
.Pp
If no options are specified, headerdoc will produce directories
containing its standard HTML output.
.Pp
For a complete list of flags, see the HeaderDoc User Guide.
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /$HOME/Library/Preferences/com.apple.headerDoc2HTML.config -compact
.It Pa /$HOME/Library/Preferences/com.apple.headerDoc2HTML.config
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gatherheaderdoc 1
.Pp
For more information, see the HeaderDoc User Guide.
It can be found in
.Pa /Developer/Documentation/
if you have the Xcode Tools package installed, or at
.UR http://developer.apple.com/mac/library/documentation/DeveloperTools/Conceptual/HeaderDoc/
<http://developer.apple.com/mac/library/documentation/DeveloperTools/Conceptual/HeaderDoc/>
.UE
in the reference library.
