.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd April 12, 2004       \" DATE 
.Dt RESMERGER 1 
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm /usr/bin/ResMerger
.Nd Merges resource forks or files into one resource file (DEPRECATED)
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl fileCreator Ar <fileCreator> 
.Op Fl fileType Ar <fileType> 
.Op Fl [a]ppend
.Op Fl srcIs Ar RSRC | DF 
.Op Fl dstIs Ar RSRC | DF 
.Ar file ...
.Fl o Ar <dest-file>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Tools supporting Carbon development, including
.Nm ,
were deprecated with Xcode 6.
.Pp
The 
.Nm
command merges the Carbon Resource Manager resource data in multiple files into a single file.  The output file may be one of the input files.
.Pp
The
.Nm
command takes the following flags and arguments:
.Bl -tag -width
.It Fl fileCreator Ar <fileCreator>
Sets the HFS creator type of the output file.  The default is '????'.
.It Fl fileType Ar <fileType> 
Sets the HFS file type of the output file.  The default is '????'.
.It Fl [a]ppend
Append to output file, rather than overwriting it.
.It Fl srcIs Ar RSRC | DF
The fork in which to look for resources in the input file(s).  The default is the data fork (DF).
.It Fl dstIs Ar RSRC | DF
The fork in which to write resources in the output file.  The default is the data fork (DF).
.It Fl skip Ar <type>
Specifies resource type to skip during the resource merge. May be used multiple times, to specify multiple resource types to skip.
.It file
Specifies one or more input files.  Note that as there is only one
.Ar srcIs
flag, the input files must be homogenous, that is, the resources must be in the same fork of all input files.
.It Fl o Ar <dest-file>
Specifies the output file.  If the fork designated by
.Fl dstIs
exists, it is overwritten unless the 
.Fl a
flag is provided; if it does not exist, it is created.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr Rez 1 , 
.Xr DeRez 1 ,
.Xr RezWack 1 ,
.Xr UnRezWack 1 ,
.Xr SplitForks 1
