.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.Dd January 4, 2009
.Dt SETFILE 1
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm /usr/bin/SetFile
.Nd set attributes of files and directories (DEPRECATED)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl P
.Op Fl a Ar attributes 
.Op Fl c Ar creator 
.Op Fl d Ar date 
.Op Fl m Ar date 
.Op Fl t Ar type 
file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Tools supporting Carbon development, including
.Nm ,
were deprecated with Xcode 6.
.Pp
.Nm
is a tool to set the file attributes on files in an HFS+ directory. It attempts to be similar to the
.Nm setfile
command in MPW. It can apply rules to more than one file with the options applying to all files listed.
.Pp
Flags:
.Bl -tag -width "-P"
.It Fl P
Acts on a symlink file instead on the file the symlink resolves to.
.El
.Bl -tag -width "-a attributes"
.It Fl a Ar attributes
Sets the file attributes bits where
.Ar attributes 
is a string of case sensitive letters. Each letter corresponds to a file attribute: an uppercase letter indicates that the attribute bit is set (1), a lowercase letter indicates that it is not (0).
.Nm Note:
.Ar attributes 
not specified remain unchanged.
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It A | a 
Alias file
.It B | b 
Has bundle
.It C | c 
Custom icon (allowed on folders)
.It D | d 
Located on the desktop (allowed on folders)
.It E | e 
Extension is hidden (allowed on folders)
.It I | i
Inited - Finder is aware of this file and has given it a location in a window. (allowed on folders)
.It L | l 
Locked
.It M | m 
Shared (can run multiple times)
.It N | n
File has no INIT resource
.It S | s 
System file (name locked)
.It T | t 
"Stationery Pad" file
.It V | v 
Invisible (allowed on folders)
.It Z | z 
Busy (allowed on folders)
.El
.It Fl c Ar creator 
Specifies the file's creator, where
.Ar creator
can be a string of four MacRoman characters, an empty string ('') designating a null creator, or a binary, decimal, octal, or hexadecimal number in standard notation (e.g. 0x52486368).
.It Fl d Ar date 
Sets the creation date, where
.Ar date
is a string of the form: "mm/dd/[yy]yy [hh:mm:[:ss] [AM | PM]]"
.Nm Notes:
Enclose the string in quotation marks if it contains spaces. The date must be in the Unix epoch, that is, between 1/1/1970 and 1/18/2038. If the year is provided as a two-digit year, it is assumed to be in the 21st century and must be from 00 (2000) through 38 (2038).
.It Fl m Ar date 
Sets the modification date where
.Ar date
is a string of the form in 
.Fl d 
above. (mm/dd/[yy]yy [hh:mm:[:ss] [AM | PM]])
.It Fl t Ar type 
Sets the file type, where 
.Ar type
can be a string of four MacRoman characters, an empty string ('') designating a null type, or a binary, decimal, octal, or hexadecimal number in standard notation (e.g. 0x55455955).
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Bl -tag -compact -width -indent
.It Nm 0 
attributes set
.It Nm 1
syntax error
.It Nm 2 
any other error
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr GetFileInfo 1
.Sh EXAMPLES 
This command line sets the modification date of "myFile":
.Pp
SetFile -m "8/4/2001 16:13" myFile
