.TH tapi\-stubify 1 2017-02-20 Darwin "TAPI Tool Documentation"
.SH NAME
tapi\-installapi \- Create a text-based stub file by scanning the header files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fItapi installapi\fR [options] <directory>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The installapi command creates a text-based stub file (.tbd) by parsing the
header files that are associated with a framework/dynamic library. The headers
are parsed per default in Objective-C syntax mode. C++ support is still
experimental.

.SH REQUIRED OPTIONS
.PP
\-arch <architecture>
.RS 4
Specifies the architectures to use for parsing the headers. At least one
architecture must be specified.
.RE

.PP
\-install_name <path>
.RS 4
Sets an internal "install path" (LC_ID_DYLIB) in a dynamic library.
.RE

.PP
\-macosx_version_min <value>
.br
\-ios_version_min <value>
.br
\-watchos_version_min <value>
.br
\-tvos_version_min <value>
.br
.RS 4
This is set to indicate the oldest platform version that that the output is to
be used on.
.RE

.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.PP
\-ObjC
.RS 4
Treat source input files as Objective-C inputs (default).
.RE

.PP
\-ObjC++
.RS 4
Treat source input files as Objective-C++ inputs.
.RE

.PP
\-x <language>
.RS 4
Treat subsequent input files as having type <language>. Supported values for
language are c, c++, objective-c, and objective-c++.
.RE

.PP
\-std=<value>
.RS 4
Language standard to compile for.
.RE

.PP
\-current_version <value>
.RS 4
Specifies the current version number of the library.
.RE

.PP
\-compatibility_version <value>
.RS 4
Specifies the compatibility version number of the library.
.RE

.PP
\-D <value>
.br
\-U <value>
.RS 4
Define/undefine macro.
.RE

.PP
\-isysroot <directory>
.RS 4
Specifies the path to the SDK directory.
.RE

.PP
\-I <value>
.RS 4
Add directory to include search path.
.RE

.PP
\-L <value>
.RS 4
Add directory to the library search path.
.RE

.PP
\-F <value>
.RS 4
Add directory to framework include search path.
.RE

.PP
\-\-verify\-mode=<value>
.RS 4
Specify the severity of the validation. Supported values are ErrorsOnly,
ErrorsAndWarnings, and Pedantic.
.RE

.PP
\-verify\-against <value>
.RS 4
Verify the specified dynamic library/framework against the headers.
.RE

.PP
\-o <file>
.RS 4
Write output to <file>.
.RE

.PP
\-\-demangle
.RS 4
Demangle C++ symbols when printing warnings and errors.
.RE

.PP
\-\-help
.RS 4
Prints the list of options.
.RE

.SH RARELY USED OPTIONS
.PP
\-allowable_client <value>
.RS 4
Restricts what can link against the dynamic library being created. Per default
this option applies to all provided architectures. The use of -Xarch_<arch>
before the option limits the effect to the provided architecture <arch>.
.RE

.PP
\-reexport_install_name <name>
.RS 4
Reexport the specified internal "install path" (LC_ID_DYLIB). Per default this
option applies to all provided architectures. The use of -Xarch_<arch> before
the option limits the effect to the provided architecture <arch>.
.RE

.PP
\-umbrella <framework_name>
.RS 4
Specifies that the dylib being linked is re-exported through an umbrella framework of the specified name.
.RE

.PP
\-fno\-rtti
.RS 4
Disable generation of rtti information.
.RE

.PP
\-fprofile\-instr\-generate
.RS 4
Add extra symbols for InstallAPI that are created by code coverage.
.RE

.PP
\-extra\-public\-header <path>
.RS 4
Add additional public header file/directory for parsing.
.RE

.PP
\-extra\-private\-header <path>
.RS 4
Add additional private header file/directory for parsing.
.RE

.PP
\-exclude\-public\-header <glob>
.RS 4
Exclude public headers that match the glob from parsing.
.RE

.PP
\-exclude\-private\-header <glob>
.RS 4
Exclude private header that match the glob from parsing.
.RE

.PP
\-fapplication\-extension
.RS 4
Restrict code to those available for App Extensions.
.RE

.PP
\-ferror\-limit <N>
.RS 4
Set the maximum number of errors to emit before stopping (0 = no limit).
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
tapi(1), ld(1)
